one of the topics I get asked to speak
on pretty regularly and I think from
people with real sincere interest is
feminism and really what they want me to
comment on is what feminism has become
in say the last 10 or 15 years um I'm
hesitant to speak on this because it's
an example of an issue on which I do not
think i can make a positive difference
or not by talking about i'm in the class
of people who has tremendous respect for
first wave feminism and second wave
feminism i'll explain what those terms
mean it just a second but I'm extremely
disappointed with third-wave feminism
and it seems to me that the word and
concept of feminism really has been
brought into a state of disrepute by
what third-wave feminism has become
there's a lesson for vegans in that now
before I even get to the question of
what those terms mean they are I think
well enough to find on Wikipedia if you
want to look them up it has to be said
feminism is not in the situation the
communism was am after 1989 communism
didn't just have a credibility deficit
didn't just make itself sound ridiculous
it wasn't just rude or offensive or
disappointing to its fans communism at a
body count measured in the millions of
people communism had failures and almost
every sphere competed in including
things like agriculture food production
so feminism we can't point to any
disaster in third-wave feminism
comparable and scale or severity what
we're talking about when we suggest that
communism is discredit itself it's a
very important caveat and I'd also say
there's no sense in which feminism can
ever discredit itself to the same extent
that Catholicism does every day the
Catholic religion likewise as a body
count measured in the millions of people
historically I realized they don't kill
millions of people every year but
looking back over the centuries because
the oldest ISM is attached to a
remarkable history of violence
oppression etc
which all of us have to take seriously
we're all burdened with the legacy of
that no matter what your personal
religious beliefs are whether you're an
atheist or Catholic or what have you and
of course when Catholics sit down to
pray they're talking to a god that
doesn't exist that discredits Catholic
read in very different sense of course
and you know I say even that with some
degree of sympathy I know what it's like
to want to believe in something that can
never be real I know what it's like to
care passionately about something
matters to you but can never be true and
I do feel sorry for our true believers
in a religion like a thoughtless ISM
first wave feminism I won't say too much
but I mean first with feminism is
associated with the basically heroic era
struggling for women to have basic human
rights such as the right to vote the
right to drink alcohol the right to
smoke smoke cigarettes that may sound
like a joke but it's not in many
countries historical these two have laws
that prevented women from smoking at
least in public or this kind of thing so
getting basic rights of this kind I'm
reading an account of that a woman who
had a dispute the authorities as over
100 years ago because she was daring to
smoke cigarettes in a train station and
again this is in Europe may sound like a
joke but it's not a joke you know first
wave feminism in the Western world was
associated with fundamental human rights
that in a sense nobody disputes I can't
even say that hilariously third-wave
feminism has become so odious and so
noxious that I have seen people
seriously try to dispute the validity of
first wave feminism just because they
have a chip on their shoulders before
third wave phones but any case the vast
majority of people both conservative and
liberal recognize the first wave
feminism was something tremendously
important positive in history of Western
civilization and most of us feel that we
may have trouble expressing it politely
that it still is something tremendously
important for many countries that are
religiously conservative whether those
are Muslim countries or Christian
countries certainly at least some
neighborhoods within the one Jewish
country in the world within Israel first
wave feminism still as an important
message
for message for conservative Jews no
doubt so it's still there still
conflicts with one of the hat second
wave feminism is a new era of challenges
and it is a special associated with some
of the sexual identity politics that
first wave feminists were not
comfortable in dealing with and then
third-wave feminism is the current era
were in that as they say it's just
really a great shame I wish I lived in a
world where I could use the word
feminist positively but it's become so
nauseous and so odious in its third wave
incarnation and the sequel to the sequel
to the original concepts of feminism
that I really do understand why all
kinds of people have distanced
themselves from the term or have even
made an effort to ridicule the term and
you know I mean all this stuff touches
me I've had girlfriends who strongly
identified as feminist although I think
none of them were thinking of third-wave
feminism are they were thing at first
and second way and I remember once I was
watching a one of these hilarious
blooper reels on the internet where
people put together the greatest hits
moments of academic third wave feminist
conferences you know you know different
professors and graduate students
standing at the podium my speechifying
on feminism and you know these are kind
of the most embarrassing or outrageous
moments and one of my blood relations
was actually odd careful hi everybody
don't think it named her you know the
video vine you write a four voice I knew
right away who and I emailed that to
some of my relatives and none of them
replied um it was it was completely
ridiculous what she was saying uh now
again I feel like putting in a caveat
here the difference between feminism and
say Buddhism because I've been involved
the academic study of Buddhism is that
if I put together a blooper reel like
that of the most outrageous and most
ridiculous things that professors of
Buddhism say at a conference almost
nobody would understand it like me and
five other guys will laugh at okay maybe
worldwide 15 to 20 guys would really be
able to laugh at a video like that
because what we do with the
the academic study Buddhism relies on
jargon it relies on technical knowledge
deep historical knowledge of a certain
specialized literature and even then you
know religious maniacs many of whom are
professors they'll never admit what's
hilarious and ridiculous with us but
yeah you can have clips from a
conference of Buddhist professors and
there will be a professor up there
making excuses for slavery and there
will be another professor at you but
it'll be coated in such a way that you
won't realize how ridiculous it is
unless you're already a specialist in
the field and feminism is not like that
it's true that outsiders people who
aren't members that field can pretty
easily scrutinize and laugh at what's
going on within the the hothouse at
those conferences so yeah my heart goes
out to people in all sides a lot of ways
I think that right now in 2016 we're in
a period of time where the promotion of
feminism in the Western world has become
lame because it's become detached from
those fundamental principles of first
wave feminism if you like and on the
other hand I have to say the whole
demi-monde of anti-feminism is also
extremely lame and embarrassing at me
and tends to fail to recognize that you
are often looking at people who have
good intentions and that's something
hard for us to in veganism oh so right
when you're looking at someone who's
actually going out and preaching that
human being should stop using soap I've
seen that not just on the internet if
dealt with that face-to-face vegans who
are out there teaching their fellow man
that they should stop washing their
hands with soap and they sincerely
believe that as wrong and misguided as
they are I have to engage with that
person beginning with the recognition
that they are from their perspective
sincerely trying to make the world a
better place